Name: Aadit Yadav
Date: 4/28/2021
Course: Gamification
Name of the game: Lyrical Type
Various research has shown that music affects people’s mind and behavior. The research if implemented digitally can have the potential to improve a person’s productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness. This paper talks about the game Lyrical Type and how this concept is utilized in the gamification scenario. The game tries to tackle the conclusion of various studies 1 which stated that “Loud music and lyrical music can be very distracting and slows down the typing speed of an individual.” Lyrical Type is built for people to enhance their concentration and performance while typing. Here a user literally types the lyrics of a song with the beat.  So, with every word the tune fuse together to make the song. And by doing this people can build a muscle memory. Beside this we also know people in general remember the song lyrics very easily compared to other things. So, songs that help build muscle memory and enjoyable for typing is the strategy we are going for.
 According to the survey done by Nielsen Music, 90% 2 of the world population listen to music. By this alone we can see our target audience can be very big and diverse. But we had to implement some of the game design principal to shorter the audience and tried to keep it between 15 years old and above.
Lyrical Type heavily revolves around music, word, and sync between them. The game so far, focused more on user interface aesthetic and creating harmony within the game. Most of the game main menu is working beside tutorial. At first, I was not considering making one but, I think this will be a good addition to the game for the future. The Main Menu has the option for Graphics and Audio. As, audio is a big part of the game all the master, music and SFX volume can be calibrated by the user themselves. Now, when we dive directly into game we will have words falling down and we will be tying the lyrics of the game as the song is being played in the back ground. The word typing, creation, destruction is all implemented however, there are still many things I wanted to create in the game menu,

